# He needs to have some sort of agency, otherwise we could kind of care less

# Maybe somehow/somewhere he has read Seneca (or some other Stoic) and has come to see that he should take control - he may not be able to stop the violence, but at least it can happen on his own terms - ie he can at least control when it happens (stop it from happening randomly)

# might make sense to rearrange things a bit to make this work a little better

# where could he have read the stoics? maybe from some comic? some reference to it? looked it up online (or in library when hiding), maybe it was an unshelved book where he was trying to hide from librarian?

# Does it help or hinder (or neither) to have marine brother dead? Maybe found meditations by marcus aurilus in brother's stuff? (he was a general) Maybe something like the whole "perform every action as though it were your last?"

# Maybe the family just got the news the brother was killed? Got his personal effects and he found Meditations (with a certain passage hilighted?)

# He is walking home from getting beat up
# We flash to remembering his brother, the news of his brother's death, the reception of his effects, finding the book, getting beat up other times, the sense of not knowing when it would happen, the getting beaten up after the video game, ending with his intentionally winning and knowing what would follow (knowing it was coming felt different this time - versus not knowing what he had done to deserve it)

# Can we do all this mental time shifting in a 1000 word story, plus keep the whole "journey" thing happening?

Journey

He quickly moves aside and pulls the bike with him. He can feel the dirt slide
and fall into his shoes as he steps a few inches down the hill. He tightens
his grip on the bike frame and it stabilizes him.

He lets his eyes adjust again to the fading sunset, the car's lights leave
flashbulbs when he blinks. He climbs back up to the asphalt and gently leans
the bike on the ground and sits down next to it.

He pulls off the now-dust-covered canvas shoe and slaps the dirt and pebbles
out. He slips it back on and does the other one. He stands up and puts the
bike back on the road and continues walking home.

He can feel the swelling in his right eye. When the punch landed it was just
like a car quickly coming around the corner -- a blast of light. He suddenly
stops, feeling un able to move, seeing the punch coming again and being held
to take it.

H looks to his left at the orange to darkness falling into the ocean. Tomorrow
is Monday. They will be there waiting for him again after school. He keeps
pushing the bike. At least he doesn't have to watch out for the pedals'
movement as he walks, their having stolen the chain and all.

He shudders as a breeze comes up. He can smell the dampness in the air. He had
no jacket. He would have been home by now if they had left him alone.

He beat one of the, at the fighting video game, so they took him outside and
beat him. There would always be a "reason" for it, some imagined insult,
something they didn't like in his voice.

Every day they would wait for him. They knew there was really only one way he
could get home(he walked) and that is down the long flight of stairs at the
side of the school: they ended in his neighborhood.

Another car is coming, he pulls the bike off the road and covers his eyes so
he won't be blinded by the headlights. The darkness gets lighter and louder
and then fades black and quiet again. He opens his eyes and keeps pushing the
bike.

Sometimes he would try and stay at the school library at the end of the day
but no matter how well he hid Mrs. Curtis would find him and tell him he would
have to go. It was rare that he would out wait them.

The ocean was getting louder as the road moved further down the hill. He
remembered a time his big brother would help him build sandcastles at the
beach. they would always be gone when they went down the next day.

He didn't talk to his brother much these days. He was in the MArines and away
a lot. He didn't think his brother ever got beaten up, he always was big and
played sports. The boy never did sports. It hurt his chest to run too much.

He hadn't told his brother about getting picked on. He didn't want to sound
like a wimp or a complainer.

He saw the lit sign for the neighborhood he lived in: "Oceanview." He didn't
want to see his parents. Maybe he could just sit in the garage for while and
wait till they went to sleep.

His father would quiz him about what he had done to aggravate the older boys
and his mother would scold him about his shoes being dirty and that they
weren't made of money.

He would go to his room and say he was going to sleep. He would wait until he
heard his parents go to their bedroom and close the door. Then he would cry.
He would scream into his pillow leaving a saltwater face in the whiteness.

He opened the door at the side of the garage as quietly as he could. His teeth
are chattering. He leans his bike on the side of the garage and goes and sits
on his brother's weight bench. His brother spent a lot of time out here
getting strong.

He wished his brother would have taught him how to work out.

He thought maybe tonight would be the night he would find the courage to steal
the paring knife from the block and put it in his backpack. He remembered some
poster of his brother's saying "never bring a knife to a gunfight."

The flood light outside went off, and the garage fell into darkness. The boy
lies on the bench and dreams of bloody knives.